Text file to store commands for using Git in the command line; and for proper use so that I don't screw anything up!

git init : initialises a git repository
git config --global options : once per computer, configures the global option (applies to all git repositories on the computer)
git config --list : will list all the set options on this machine

git status : lists the status of the current repository. Will highlight anything that warrants attention.
"Untracked files" - files in the repository that git is not tracking. Can be added with the "add" command.

git add : add the listed file(s) to the git repository for tracking. Need to do this before a commit to save the changes to any modified files.
Can call git add by feeding in a directory, to speed up multiple file changes.
The -f flag forces git to add a file, even if it's in the .gitignore file.

git commit : commits changes made to tracked files in the repository.
git commit -m "message" : will assign a message to this commit to remind yourself of what you did.
Running git commit without this optional flag will bring up the default text editor so that you can write a longer message.
git log : can be used to remind yourself of the previous commits.
git diff : lists the changes made from the previous commit (checkpoint) to those that will be committed in the next git commit command call.

git checkout : restores an old version of a file.
git checkout HEAD "file" : restores the previous version of the file "file", prior to a commit command!

.gitignore : a file that goes in the top level of the git directory. Would look something like:
"
*.dat
results/
"
This file (without the quote marks) would tell git to ignore any file with the .dat extension, and anything in the results/ subdirectory.

git rm --cached foo.txt : Git will stop tracking the file foo.txt


--- Configuring on GitHub ---
git remote add <name> "link" : connects the local repository to the online one via the link, calling this link <name>. Can also use SSH but requires additional options (but provides more security).
git remote -v : displays links to/from this repository.

git push origin master : pushes changes from the local repository to the origin repository (and to master branch).

git pull origin master : pulls changes from the origin repository (master branch) to the local repository.
